# [DisCoTec 2019](https://www.discotec.org/2019)  - Keynotes

## [David Basin](https://www.inf.ethz.ch/personal/basin/) (ETH Zürich, Switzerland)
**Title**: Security Protocols:  Model Checking Standards

**Abstract**: The design of security protocols is typically approached as an art, rather than a science, and often with disastrous consequences. But this need not be so!  I have been working for ca. 20 years on foundations, methods, and tools, both for developing protocols that are correct by construction and for the post-hoc verification of existing designs.  In this talk I will introduce my work in this area and describe my experience analyzing, improving, and contributing to different industry standards, both existing and upcoming.

**Bio**: David Basin is a full professor within the Department of Computer Science, ETH Zurich since 2003, where he heads the Information Security Group. He is also department head. His research focuses on Information Security, in particular on foundations, methods, and tools for modeling, building, and validating secure and reliable systems. He is Editor-in-Chief of the ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security and of Springer-Verlag's book series on Information Security and Cryptography. He is also the founding director of ZISC, the Zurich Information Security Center, which he led from 2003-2011. He was named Fellow of the ACM in 2018 for his contributions to Information Security and Formal Methods.

## [Anne-Marie Kermarrec](https://www.irisa.fr/asap/?page_id=179) (INRIA Rennes, France)
**Title**: Making Sense of Fast Big Data

**Abstract**: Computing systems that make human sense of big data, usually called personalization systems or recommenders,  and popularized by Amazon and Netflix, essentially help Internet users extracting  information of interest to them. Leveraging machine learning techniques, research on personalization has mainly focused on improving the quality of the information extracted, according to some measure of quality. Yet, building an operational recommender goes far beyond, especially in a world where data is not only big but also changes very fast. This talk will discuss system challenges to scale to a large number of users and a growing volume of fastly changing data to eventually provide real-time personalization.

**Bio**: Anne-Marie Kermarrec is a senior researcher at Inria, France where she led a research group on large-scale distributed systems from 2006 to 2015. She is currently the CEO of the [Mediego](https://www.mediego.com/en/) startup that she founded in April 2015. Mediego provides content personalisation services for online publishers, and directly builds on her recent research. Anne-Marie received an ERC grant in 2008 and an ERC proof of Concept in 2013. She received from the French Academy of Science  the Montpetit Award  in 2011 and the Innovation Award in 2017. She has been elected to the European Academy in 2013 and named ACM Fellow in 2016. Her research interests are large-scale distributed systems, peer to peer networks and system support for machine learning. 

## [Marta Kwiatkowska](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/marta.kwiatkowska/) (University of Oxford, UK)
**Title**: TBA

**Abstract**: TBA

**Bio**: Marta Kwiatkowska is Professor of Computing Systems and Fellow of Trinity College, University of Oxford. Marta Kwiatkowska spearheaded the development of probabilistic and quantitative methods in verification on the international scene. She led the development of the PRISM model checker, the leading software tool in the area and widely used for research and teaching and winner of the HVC 2016 Award. Kwiatkowska gave the Milner Lecture in 2012 in recognition of "excellent and original theoretical work which has a perceived significance for practical computing". Marta Kwiatkowska is the first female winner of the 2018 Royal Society Milner Award and Lecture. She is a Fellow of ACM, member of Academia Europea, Fellow of EATCS and Fellow of the BCS. She serves on editorial boards of several journals, including Information and Computation, Formal Methods in System Design, Logical Methods in Computer Science, Science of Computer Programming and Royal Society Open Science journal. Kwiatkowska's research has been supported by grant funding from EPSRC, ERC, EU, DARPA and Microsoft Research Cambridge, including the prestigious ERC Advanced Grant VERIWARE "From software verification to everyware verification" and the EPSRC Programme Grant on Mobile Autonomy.

## [Silvio Micali](https://people.csail.mit.edu/silvio/) (MIT, USA)  
**Title**: TBA

**Bio**: Silvio Micali has been on the faculty at MIT, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, since 1983. Silvio's research interests are cryptography, zero knowledge, pseudorandom generation, secure protocols, and mechanism design. In 2017, Silvio founded Algorand, a fully decentralized, secure, and scalable blockchain which provides a common platform for building products and services for a decentralized economy. At Algorand, Silvio oversees all research, including theory, security and crypto finance. Silvio is the recipient of the Turing Award (in computer science), of the Goedel Prize (in theoretical computer science) and the RSA prize (in cryptography). He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

## [Martin Wirsing](https://www.sosy-lab.org/people/wirsing/) (LMU, Germany)
**Title**: Towards Formally Designing Collective Adaptive Systems<br>
in cooperation with Lenz Belzner, Thomas Gabor, Rolf Hennicker, and Alexander Knapp

**Abstract**: Many modern software systems are distributed and consist of interacting entities that have to cope at runtime with dynamically changing environments and possibly also with new requirements. We call such systems ensembles or – in case the entities are collaborating - collective adaptive systems. Examples are robot swarms and also socio-technical systems such as smart city or smart health care applications. As the interactions between the participants of an ensemble may lead to unexpected reactions and as unforeseen functionalities may be needed in order to react correctly to changes of the environment, conventional software development techniques and approaches – be they agile or waterfall - might not provide adequate support. Novel rigorous engineering techniques are needed where mathematical as well as artificial intelligence techniques and foundational methods play a prominent role. This talk presents a systematic approach for designing ensembles including an ensemble engineering life cycle, an ensemble specification method based on dynamic logic and two complementary approaches to adaptation:  role-based adaptation modelling and online planning using reinforcement learning.  

**Bio**: Martin Wirsing is a Professor at LMU where he leads the Chair of Programming and Software Engineering and has served as Dean, Head of Department and Vice President of the Senat of LMU. Since 2010 he is Vice President for Teaching and Studies of LMU. In July 2016, he was awarded a Degree of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) by Royal Holloway, University of London. His research interests comprise software engineering and its formal foundations, autonomous self-aware systems, and digitisation of universities. In 2006-2015 he was coordinating the European IP projects SENSORIA (2006-2010) on software engineering for service-oriented systems and ASCENS (2010-2015) on engineering collective autonomic systems. In 2007-2010 Martin Wirsing was the chairman of the Scientific Board of INRIA and in 2014-2017 a member of the scientific committee of Institut Mines-Télécom. Currently, he is a member of the board of trustees of Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry and of the scientific committees of the University of Bordeaux and IMDEA Software Institute. He is a member of the editorial board of several scientific journals and book series including Theoretical Computer Science (journal), International Journal of Software and Informatics, and Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science.
